What do you think intento might mean?
Quiero is I want, and this -o is showing that it's I.
If you heard intento, what do you think it might mean?
Try?
Yeah.
How did you know that?
Well Do you know how you knew that?
Well yeah, I sort of went from in intent
I intend to do something.
There is no rule here to convert intention to a verb.
It's not –ation so we can't take off the –ation and put –r.
Yeah.
But we have intention, we know what is the meaning so we can hear a verb like this and understand what it means.
Intento means I try or I am trying.
I try or I am trying.
So how would you say I am trying to publish it?
Again it's something you think "I can't say this in Spanish!"
Intento publicarlo.
Good.
I try to publish it or I am trying to publish it.
We've got both there.
Good.
How would you say I am trying to administrate it?
Intento administrarlo.
Good.
I am trying to imitate it or I am trying to imitate him.
could mean either.
Intento,
OK, it's imitation-imitación-imitar.
Exactly.
Imit
Now page in Spanish are completely silent.
You must be careful not even
to think them because they will have a habit of of slipping out even if you think it.
So it's written the H is written in convertible words for example, like hospital ends in A L
But it's not pronounced.
You must imagine that it begins with an O.
So how would you say hospital?
Hospital.
See you you thought of the H and the little kind of uh aspiration
came there which is fine but to get the perfect accent you really want to think in your mind that it begins with oh hospital there you are perfect hospital horrible
Good, and here we have an example of double R inside the word horrible.
If you can't pronounce that, you just make horrible and uh it will be perfectly understood.
There's no problem there.
Good.
How would you say habitual?
Habitual.
Habitually:
Habitualmente.
The word for now in Spanish is ahora.
Ahora.
This is spelled a-h-o-r-a.
A-h-o-r-a.
Ahora.
Aura.
Good.
Is the h silent in every… Yeah. Unless it's c-h in which case it's like English /ch/.
Ahora is actually the combination of two words:
a which means to and hora which means hour.
So it's something like "to the hour".
So that gives us another couple of words as well,
a meaning to in the sense of direction, to somewhere, and hora meaning hour.
Ahora, now.
So how would you say I want to cancel it, but I don't want to cancel it now?
We said that the word for but is pero.
So we want to divide it up piece by piece.
I want:
Quiero. To cancel it:
Cancelarlo. Good.
But: Pero. I don't want:
No quiero. To cancel it: Cancelarlo. Now: Ahora.
So a big sentence which we might imagine that we can't take on; if we divide it up bit by bit we realise that we can think our way through it.
The word for I go or I am going in Spanish is voy.
Voy.
Boy.
Good.
Now this is actually spelled v-o-y.
Now the v in Spanish can sound like a v in English like a /v/ or it can sound like a soft b like /boy/.
You might be familiar with the word vamos
which means let's go,
literally we are going, used a lot like let's go, vamos.
Now this is spelled v-a-m-o-s.
And what you probably hear there is a B
It really depends where you are.
In the southern cone around Argentina and Chile you hear a lot more /v/ kind of pronunciation in many places.
Generally in the Spanish-speaking world it's like a soft b
so we want to make that association now between v and soft b.
To remember this word, voy, we can think of a voyage
so we can see the connection there between voyage and to go.
I go or I am going?
Voy.
I am going now:
Voy ahora.
I am not going now:
No voy ahora.
Good,
How do you think you might say visit in Spanish?
Visitar?
Yeah. Why did you think that?
Was it just a guess?
Well, it's visitation… Visitation, does that exist?
I think so,
visitation rights?
Exactly!
Very good!
This is it.
It's a word that exists that we only use in some context, like visitation rights.
Visitar, visitar,
if you are not comfortable with the soft b just pronounce a v,
it doesn't matter.
When you practice Spanish you are going to pick up the accent of who you are speaking to
so it's not a fundamental issue of ours right now.
So, visitar.
I want to visit him:
Quiero visitarlo.
Good.
We can look at some other words now with this v sound and experiment a little bit with the sound.
So how do you think you would say visible in Spanish?
Visible.
Good.
Well there's something very good you're doing here.
If you're not pronouncing that S as a Z, like in English, visible
Many people at home will find themselves doing this, putting that z there from English and pronouncing vi-zi-ble.
We don't want that, we want visible.
And the v is like a soft b.
If you want more elaboration of what is this soft b you can put a small piece of paper in front of your mouth and make the b in English like bucket and you will see that paper move with that burst of air that comes with bucket.
That hard b in English is a plosive sound,
it means you gather up a little bit of air and you shoot it out when you make that b,
where this b doesn't have that,
it's a soft one.
So you can experiment with that,
again like I say we don't want to stress out about sounds,
to use a v sound is perfectly fine.
Viral:
Viral.
Viral. Good.
So if viral is viral how do you think virus might be?
Viro.
Virus. It's actually the same word, you are just pronouncing it exactly as it is. Virus.
Convenient:
Conveniente?
Conveniente. Good.